-: Welcome back.
As part of step four,
we are going to review or do a live template writing
for our Ingress Kube manifest with default backend option.
So we need to go
into the file 01 Kube manifest default backend folder.
And inside that 02 ALB Ingress basic.yaml.
So let's go back here to our visual studio code,
and we are in 802ALB Ingress basics,
and inside that the folder
is 01 Kube manifest default backend.
And 01 nginx app1 deployment
and note port service related Kubernetes manifest code,
we already reviewed in the previous lecture.
So now we will enter into 02 ALB Ingress basic.yaml.
So the standard template here,
API version, kind, metadata, and then spec.
So for latest Ingress, right?
So for the latest Ingress resources,
so we need to use the API version as networking.k8s.io/v1.
And whatever the kind Kubernetes object we are going
to create here is Ingress.
And in the metadata we are going
to provide the name of my Ingress service
and my Ingress service name is ingress-nginxapp1.
And I'm also going to define labels here
and I'm going to say it as app equal to app1 nginx.
So this is purely optional.
We really don't need to even define the label
for my service here.
So now let's come back here
and in the metadata itself,
we will have something called annotations.
If we go back to our presentation here,
so in the Ingress manifest,
the key items are Ingress annotations
and in Ingress spec, Ingress class name definition
and in Ingress spec, defining either Ingress routing rules
or default backend.
So now we are at this point
where we are defining the load balancer settings
which is nothing but defining the Ingress annotations.
So I will say annotations
and we'll start with the first annotation.
So let's go back here
and go to the annotations documentation
and you'll find something called
ALB Ingress load balancer name.
So we'll provide the load balancer name here.
And if you want to understand more about it,
so open it in the new tab and you'll go there exactly.
Specify the custom name to use for the load balancer name.
So name longer than 32 characters will be treated
as an error.
So once defined on a single Ingress,
it impacts every Ingress within the Ingress group.
So the Ingress group is a different concept
which we will see in upcoming sections,
but for now we are going
to just define a simple name forever load balancer, right?
So let's come back here
and define it as app1 Ingress, right?
So this is the first setting of my annotations related
to my load balancer.
And another important thing is Ingress core setting.
We call this as the Ingress core setting because,
so this Ingress service should be a internal Ingress service
or external Ingress service,
which means this should be private load balancer
or public load balancer.
So that setting can be defined using something called
in annotation, you'll find the scheme here, right?
So go to the scheme here and specifies
whether your load balancer will be internet facing
or internal, right?
So let me copy this
and define the scheme here.
And it is going to be internet facing.
So I'll say internet facing.
You can also search for internet facing,
see ALB Ingress Kubernetes cyber scheme internal
or internet facing.
So I N T E R N E T, internet facing.
So this is good.
And there will be one more annotation
which we need to discuss in detail.
But first we'll define the health check settings.
So we have defined the load balancer name, scheme
and we can also define the health check settings
for our application load balancer here.
So let's go here and go to the health check here
and you'll find the health check setting related
all annotations here.
The first one is protocol,
health check protocol you want to use,
and I'll put it as HTTP protocol I'm using.
I can say this as health check setting.
And this I can say as Ingress core setting.
And this one I can say as load balancer name, right?
And the first setting for health check is completed.
And next one we are going to define is traffic port, right?
On which port it need to do the health check?
It is going to be traffic port.
And another setting is health check path, right?
And my health check path is going to be,
so let me put this here,
and is going to be app1/index.html
Where my application related files are present, right?
index.html of my nginx is present
in the app1 folder so I'll use that.
And next one, right?
So let me enter and let me come back here.
And next one is going to be health check interval seconds.
And I can give that as 15 seconds and let me put that.
And I'll also provide the health check timeout, right?
I can provide that as something around five
and in seconds.
And we can also provide the success quotes
and then healthy thresholds and all those things.
So we can provide a single value
or we can provide multi value, right?
200. 201 to 300, like this,
we can provide those things.
And I'll also provide the threshold count
and also I'll provide the unhealthy threshold count.
So this completes the health check setting definitions
for my respective to Ingress resource.
I have defined the load balancer name
and where this load balancer should be placed internal
or internet facing and also health check settings here.
So now let's come back here
and review one more thing here, right?
So this is the app1index.html.
So this Ingress is nothing but a combination
of multiple applications you can send that traffic to.
That's the core definition, right?
So which means an application load balancer created
for using a single load balancer you can send traffic
to multiple applications with different schemes
like using context path based or host header based
and all those things.
In cases like now, you have only one application here.
So that's the reason you can define this
as a global app1index.html,
but in this Ingress,
you are using the context part based routing,
how we have discussed about accounts, products,
and root context.
And at that point of time in each application,
there might not be a /app1
and then index.html related things available
for health check.
So at that point of time,
we need to move these things,
this respect you thing, right,
directly to your node port service so that,
that becomes a service level one see.
So now if you see here,
need to add health check path annotation in service level.
If you're planning to use multiple targets
in a load balancer.
Multiple targets are nothing
but you are using multiple rules to define
and then add multiple things here,
means like you're sending the traffic
from a single Ingress service to multiple applications.
At that point of time you move your health check path,
off your respective thing from global,
from global Ingress setting to you are service level,
node port service level thing, you need to move there.
So now let's come back here and then come back to the spec.
So we have completed the annotations part here
and now we need to define the Ingress class name.
So let's define the Ingress class name here
And I'll say Ingress class name.
And in Ingress class name,
we are going to get the Ingress class name
from our 0 8 0 1 Kube manifest
and get this value from here.
Let's come back and provide this.
And the next thing is,
we also need to provide the default backend here.
And in default backend,
we need to provide the service information
and in service the name of the service,
we need to provide
and name of the service,
we can get from our 01 nginx.
And here is the name
of the node port service we need to define here, right?
And we also need to define the port
and we'll say the number as 80.
So this completes the definition of your Ingress service.
And another important thing to discuss here is,
so let's come back here
and go to the Ingress class documentation
and you'll discuss about it deprecated annotation.
One important annotation.
So you can say ALB
or I can say kubernetes.io/ingress.class.
So this is the earlier annotation which we used to use
and it is widely implemented
across all the Ingress resources or Ingress controllers.
So let's come back here,
see deprecated kubernetes.io/ingress.class annotation.
So before the Ingress class resource
and Ingress class name field were added in Kubernetes 1.18.
So Ingress classes were specified with this name, right?
So the newer is Ingress class name field
whatever we have added here, right?
So let's come back here.
And this is the one.
So already you have defined it as a default controller,
means like you are Ingress AWS ALB controller.
You have defined it as a default controller
with this respective setting.
So which means you really don't need
to even define this also.
Why, because you already have a default controller
which is Ingress controller in your Kubernetes cluster.
And then you don't need
to specify the Ingress class name here.
But just for notation and to understand for us,
I have defined it here and let's come back here.
So the newer Ingress class name field
and Ingress is replacement for that respect to annotation
which is kubernetes.io/ingress.class,
but is not a direct equivalent.
While the annotation was generally used to
reference the name of Ingress controllers
that should implement the Ingress.
The field is a reference to an Ingress class resource
that contains additional Ingress configurations
including the name of the Ingress controller.
In simple terms, in very, very simple terms.
So this is now a optional thing
whether we want to use it or not.
So if you use it or if you don't use it,
there is no harm for us as on today.
But why do we need to use a deprecated annotation
in our latest Ingress manifest?
So that's the reason,
I didn't define any Ingress class right?
Kubernetes.io/ingress.class here, right?
We are directly using the Ingress class name
and referencing to the Ingress class,
whatever we have created
in our load balancer install related section.
So this completes the review and our live template writing
of our Ingress resource with that default back end.
So in our next lecture,
we are going to deploy this send then test it.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.